Welcome everyone to R-Ladies Rome. We are going to talk about what's new in the tidyverse.
So again, welcome everyone to the third event hosted by the R-Ladies Rome chapter. My name is
Federica Gazzelloni and I am one of the organizers. I'm thrilled to have you all here tonight and
we are also delighted to be joined by Isabella Velasquez who will be our esteemed speaker for
the evening. A bit of Italian, so benvenuti. Questo è il terzo evento per questo gruppo R-Ladies
Rome. Sono Federica Gazzelloni, una delle organizzatrici. Siamo in compagnia di Isabella
Velasquez. Ciao Isabella, la nostra leader per questa sera. Tutto il materiale verrà condiviso
durante la presentazione e già lo avete nella chat, quindi se volete potete dare già un'occhiata
anche alla documentazione tidiverse di cui parleremo.
So what is R-Ladies? R-Ladies starts with R-Ladies Global which is an organization
with the mission of promoting the R language for empowering women at all user levels
by building a collaborative global network. So it is a gender diversity friendly community
well funded in 2012 by Gabriella Queroz in San Francisco and R-Ladies now has grown very well.
It is now a worldwide organization with about 206 chapters and more than 93,000 members globally.
So for more information you can visit rladies.org.
So what is R-Ladies Rome? R-Ladies Rome is a local chapter of R-Ladies Global and it is
dedicated to promoting gender diversity in the R language community. Our monthly meetings provide
a platform to discuss current trends and hot topics in R and we encourage active participation
and engagement from all attendees. So we welcome your suggestions, your comments and invite you to
get in touch to join our vibrant community. Our founder is Claudia Vitolo and she is also a
co-founder of R-Ladies Global. I am one of the organizers and we have a new co-organizer,
Katie Wood, and we expect more organizers to join us soon. So this is our fall so far so we had
interesting speakers and we expect to have more. We joined the next event, our neighbor will be
a joint event with R-Ladies New York and we expect Dr. Laura Kahn to be presenting her book
about One Health and Coronaviruses and then in May we have John Harmon which is the chief of the
R4DS community learning talking about his journey and then also get in touch so you can send an email
find us on Twitter, on GitHub or on LinkedIn.
The last thing I want to mention is that I've tried a job board so each month we present
some interesting openings and for now this month so far has been very interesting so I've tried
opening on LinkedIn for new organizers and we have 14 enthusiastic responses so from high
qualified individuals who are eager to be part of this new venture. So welcome everyone, I know that
you're here as well with all of us and so we have chosen two nice co-organizers because they are
basically based in Rome but we expected to hear from you so if you like to propose anything please
get in touch so we welcome warmly. So tonight's presentation, so tonight's speaker is Isabella
Velasquez who don't know about her so for those of you who don't know about her she is I use her
word and her enthusiasm first learning the programming language during her master in
analytics. Previously Isabella conducted a data analysis and research developed infrastructure
to support use of data and created resources and training. Her work on deposit formerly
RStudio marketing team draws on these experiences to create content and support and strengthen
content and support and strengthen data science teams. So in her spare time Isabella enjoys
playing with her tortoiseshell cats, watching films, analysis videos, I'd like to ask more
about that Isabella, and hiking in the mountains around Seattle. So you can find her on Twitter
at this link and so in this meetup we will be learning about what's new in data diversity so
which is a suite of packages that revolutionize data wrangling, visualizations, and analysis.
And we have a Q&A session at the end of the talk so you can use the chat
and so we are back. So Isabella the floor is yours.
Thank you so much for the introduction Federica and many thanks to you and our ladies room for
this this opportunity and thanks all for joining and listening to what's new in the data diversity.
I'm very excited to share particularly because there is a lot of exciting news.
And so Federica in the chat already shared, sorry trying to get rid of my Zoom toolbar,
the materials for today. So there's two pieces of resources that might interest you. First up is
this website and I'm going to start off here but mostly today I'm going to be working in RStudio
and the GitHub repository is also available. That's what created this website and has
all the things that you're going to see me run today. So just kind of to start off our introduction
so again hello everyone I'm Isabella. Please keep in touch I'd love to hear from you.
And like I mentioned there are a lot of really exciting news and updates coming from the Tidyverse
team and it's just absolutely amazing what the Tidyverse team has put out over the past few
months and it's incredible work both in terms of what they've implemented in the Tidyverse packages
as well as the documentation, the blog posts, all the resources and so just really wanted to
give amazing kudos to that team for everything that they've done recently. And that being said
there have been a ton of changes recently and we're going to go through some of them today
but I'm going to admit there's no way that we're going to be able to cover everything in full depth.
I also know that there are a few Tidyverse packages that have had updates that we're not
going to cover today. For example 4CATS, TPLYR and BBPLYR. But I did want to share a few ways
that you can stay in the loop with everything that's going on. First off the R for Data Science,
second edition, is currently in progress. It's available online. You can go look at it while
it's being written and I believe the plan is to publish it later this year. Second is the Tidyverse
blog. So that was a huge reference for almost everything that you see today. The team just
for major releases or updates periodically posts blog posts that kind of walk through all of the
changes and I just highly recommend you know taking a peek periodically and seeing you know
what's new there. And there are also really exciting news not just related to the Tidyverse.
For example WebR was recently released which is an amazing tool for running R in the browser.
Take a look. Highly worth it. I really recommend it. And finally I also wanted to mention the
PositGlimpse Twitter and Mastodon accounts. And these this is run by the open source team
and sharing like these really cool news and tools that are coming out and how to use them.
Also you know a big part of the community sharing like the cool things that
that you all are doing as well. So I highly encourage you to follow PositGlimpse as well.
So welcome to this talk. I am assuming that you may have some familiarity with the Tidyverse.
If you don't what the Tidyverse is it's an opinionated collection of R packages
that are designed for data science. And so things like from data import to data wrangling to data
visualization etc that is encompassed in the Tidyverse packages. If you ever want to see what
all the packages are the Tidyverse has a very handy function to do so which is listed here.
And another thing I wanted to note about this website it is built on a tool called Porto which
lets you create documents in all different kinds of formats like HTML like this or PDF or etc.
And it also can run code so R, Python all natively and so also a very cool tool.
And if you hover over links on this website they're actually URLs and you can
open them up and see the reference for those functions. So if you're going through and
you're like oh no I really need to learn more about Reframe you can just click that function
name and open it up. So another thing I wanted to mention is Pack. Pack is a modern successor to
packages like DevTools and Remotes if you have used those before. And you can install all the
newest version of the packages that we're going to talk about today using Pack. In addition in the
post you're going to see I use Pack to download the very specific versions of the packages that
we're talking about. The reason is this is being recorded I don't know when you're going to be
watching this and so very likely things have changed. And using Pack lets you ensure that
you're using exactly the version that I'm talking about when I talk about these functions and
arguments and things like that. Really briefly I wanted to cover the lifestyle stages. So this
could reference functions, arguments, packages, etc. But usually it's in reference to functions
the stage in which the function exists. And so there's these four stages and so the first one
is stable. This is the default. What stable means is the author is happy with the function and it's
not likely to change anytime soon. Another one is deprecated. So deprecated means that it is
not to be used anymore and there is an alternative that's a better function for you as opposed to the
one that you're looking at. The other term is superseded. So what this means is the function
isn't going to go away like it would be if it were deprecated but there are alternatives that
you should consider instead. And finally there's experimental which means this function is
something that you can go try out give feedback on but there's no guarantee that it's going to
stick around long term. So for example this is a function called recode. You're going to see
up here a badge that lets you know that it's been superseded
and we're going to talk about what supersedes recode later on.
Another quick note that I wanted to mention is vectors. So this is a package that kind of works
behind the scenes of a lot of the tidyverse things that you see and a lot of these updates recently
have been rewritten to use this vectors package which kind of like standardizes and brings all
the rules together in one place. And so as you know if you're a data scientist or data analyst
this isn't going to impact you too much. Just generally know that it means better error messages,
more consistency, and bug fixes. And another thing is the hope is that the reliance on vectors kind
of encourages higher quality code. So to give an example this is something that you could create
with if-else where you have a vector 1 through 10 and an na. The if-else statement says you know if
it's divisible by 2 then return x and then if not x in character is a character value. And so before
this might have you know kind of gone by okay like R would kind of assume like what you were
trying to do but now with vectors it's going to give you an error and it's going to tell you why
you can't combine true oh sorry integer and character values. And the reason for that is
it's kind of assuming like that you may be making a mistake and if you're not making a mistake it's
just going to ask you to be more explicit about what exactly that you're doing. So again it's
encouraging like higher quality by being more explicit. And again that's a theme that we're
going to just see throughout. And the final note before we get started is you're going to see a lot
of the base R pipe instead of the McRead R pipe. So the base R pipe it looks like a slash and then
a greater than sign versus the McRead R pipe which is the percentage, the greater than percentage
sign. And we're going to be using the base R pipe because first of all that's what the tidyverse
team is using. So you're going to see the second edition of R for data science. That's what they've
been using in all of the blog posts. That's what they've been using. It is similar but not the same
as the McRead R pipe. If you have any questions I actually wrote a blog post along with my brother
on how to understand the base R pipe. And so I linked it here in case it is useful for you.
I hope so and it was also a lot of fun to write together. And then I also linked to the note in
R for data science which kind of talks about why you would use, why the team is using the base R
pipe instead of McRead R pipe. So thank you. That's just a quick intro because I wanted to
kind of give a foundation on how I'm going to be referring things,
to things like if I mention vectors I want you to, you know, understand what exactly I'm talking
about. And another thing is there are a lot of packages one more time that have been updated.
So what I'm thinking of doing is going through the packages and after I cover all the material
that I have for that particular package then opening it up for questions on that before moving
on. So please put them in the chat and I will get back to them as soon as I'm done with that
particular package. Okay. So like I mentioned I'm going to be moving to my R studio now.
So first up we're going to be talking about Tidyverse. Tidyverse just had a new release.
2.0.0 is now out and like I mentioned you can install a specific version of a package using
pack like so and that's what I already have. And then you load the package as usual with library.
Okay. So you, if you are a user of the Tidyverse you may have seen this many many times.
Take a look. Does anything look different?
Okay.
Ta-da! The package lubridate is now part of the core Tidyverse. You can see that within here
it's listed here and this is very exciting news. So what that means is when you load
library Tidyverse it, lubridate automatically attaches to your session. You don't have to call
it separately which is something very common that people have to do. Library Tidyverse,
library lubridate. Now you don't need to do that. And that you know very exciting news for anybody
who uses lubridate which is a package for working with dates and times and has very very nice
functions for for doing so. And then the second thing that you may have noticed is this message
that says use the conflicted package to force all conflicts to become errors. So with this new
version of Tidyverse the conflicted package is being advertised. So what a conflict means is that
two packages or two or more packages have functions of the same name. And in R the default
way that it deals with this is that the second or the package loaded last wins and that
packages function overrides the other packages function. So for example if you were loading
dplyr and mass they both have this function called select. And if you were to do this
actually it does give you a message letting you know select is mass from dplyr.
But I don't know about you sometimes I kind of glaze over the messages that it gives me.
And so if you you know happen to forget or you didn't read it later on whenever you are using
select you might become very frustrated because you're trying to run you know a pipe and for some
reason it's just not selecting your columns and it's very frustrating. And so how is you know how
your R session is supposed to know which one it is that you that you want.
And so by loading conflicted beforehand if you have packages that have conflicts
select will give you an error or sorry loading that function will give you an error. So
conflicted will be very specific it will let you know it's been found in two packages
and give you two options for dealing with this. The first option is that you can identify the
namespace or identify the package that you're referring to every time that you're using that
function. So for select I'm saying I always want to be or I want to be using dplyr select
and then later on I could be using masses select. Or another option is to declare a preference with
conflicts prefer and by doing that it's saying that at any time it sees select it will prefer
dplyr select unless you tell it otherwise. And so conflicted is a very handy package I
like cannot believe how many times select and filter have gotten me you know in my data analysis
workflows and so it's just something the tidyverse team recommends that you use.
Another note is at the bottom of all of these posts I'm going to be linking to
the blog post that I am referencing as well as the release notes and any other resources that I
have found. Hopefully again that is helpful for you as you continue you know learning about what's
new in the tidyverse.
Okay before I move on to dplyr any questions about the tidyverse update?
Okay so dplyr 1.1.0 has been released and it has a bunch of new functions and things that you can
do and again just highly recommend looking at everything it's incredible. And the first thing
that we're going to be talking about is what is called the per operation grouping. So this is
something new so let's go through it. As usual you can install package who you'd like and I'm
going to load it here. So per operation grouping is something experimental that's going on instead
of group by you have the option of using by for your for grouping and pipes. So let's cover what
group by is again. It is a function that lets you group by one more variable.
So say you have this table of transactions you have companies a and b and you have the year
and you have revenue for that year and you notice like there are some years that
have duplicate rows for the revenue. So a very common thing that you may be asked
is how do you get revenue by company and year the total revenue by company in year.
And so very commonly you will take the data frame transactions you're going to group by
company and year and you're going to mutate total equals the sum of that revenue. So taking a look
here what you have done is I created a total column and for company a year 2019 it it will
have both of the rows but it will have some the 20 and the 50 from that year and that company
into the total column. And so that's great that works and gives you what you need but you may
notice up here there's this message that says groups company and year. And so the reason for
that is group by is what is called persistent grouping. It lasts for more than one operation
and just because you have created this column and done what you want it to do doesn't mean
that the groups have gone away. So another option that you may have thought of is you could use
summarize. So summarize is another function from dplyr and you can take the transactions group by
and then summarize and as you notice here the difference between this and what we did above
is this is a 2019. I'm sorry that it's not showing all the way that you have one row
for each group of company and year as opposed to multiple like we did up here and that's what
summarize does it gives you a result of one for each group. And if you notice here the groups
it just says company so year is has been peeled off the group which you know is good if you know
but if you don't know it might be very confusing as you try to do further operations and you know
you're like why are things not grouping or summing the correct way. So what if you just
didn't want groups anymore and you had a couple of options. The first one is that you could do
ungroup so group by your operation ungroup and doing so means that you no longer have any groups
there. The second option is within your summarize statement to say groups equal drop so saying
summarize this and then drop the groups. And so in both of these cases you can see that there is
no longer group listed in your output. And now there is a new by idea so this is the per operation
grouping and what that means is you do you take your frame data frame you do your thing you get
back a bare data frame. I also like group by those ones that have groups still even after you
do your operation are called group data frames by doesn't do that it's a bare data frame your
operation a bare data frame. And so the way that it works is your by statement is in line with the
operation that you want to run. And so in this case we want to create a total column with mutate
that sums the revenue and we're saying do it by company and year just directly in the line.
And doing that it gives you that original output that we were looking for but now we
don't have a grouped data frame which is very very handy. So that means it's no longer grouped
on the way out it does the one operation and then it drops off. And this makes more sense
on the website but essentially it's reiterating what I just said before it was a bare table
transaction and then you ended up with a group data frame and that's bare table
or data frame transaction and then bare table or data frame. This has several advantages
again you didn't see that message about regrouping you never have to remember to ungroup again
which is pretty sweet if you've ever encountered that before. Another thing is that order doesn't
matter if you remember with the summarize company stayed year was the one that was peeled off and
that's because year was the second group. In this case it doesn't matter whether you have company
or if you have year it because you're doing it line by line as opposed to kind of like all together.
Another thing is you know you might consider this easier to read because again you're associating
exactly what you're grouping by with the operation. And another advantage is you can
use tidy select which things like all of you know contains and things like that you can do
that within your by operation which is you know very handy if that's something that you need.
But there are some caveats buys only for selection so it doesn't create columns which
is something that you can do with group by. It always returns an ungrouped or a bare data frame
and so in your previous code you may have used group by depending on that group data frame
so it's just something to note if you intend to you know switch out your code or anything like that.
Again you have to create those columns ahead of time because by is not going to actually
create columns for you so they need to already exist. And there's also the question of sorting
so group by sorts by ascending order and that impacts the results by does not so just something
else to be aware of. Just a quick note that this was inspired by data table which is another package
for data manipulation. The tinyverse team saw that they had you know kind of implemented this
per operation grouping and you know thought like what about for dplyr. So that's kind of
the summary. There's various dplyr verbs that are supported by by so here's the list here and
there's more information in the documentation and you might be wondering is there a period or not
by everywhere I try to put by slash by and this is depends on the function that you're using.
It's just a thing about dplyr some use the period some don't and so if you try to do it with the
incorrect one it will just give you an error and it's very informative it's just going to let you
know that you need to use by without a period instead here. So running that gives you what you
need and so then you can continue forward and you may be wondering what about group by. It is not
going away it's not fabricated it's not superseded and there's no pressure to use by or by only if
it makes sense to you. Okay I see that some questions in the chat you like okay now for
this part of the package yeah so it says within the same format is it possible to not have revenue
while summarizing and directly have unique rows like it's used to being grouped by
and
yes sorry uh is it okay if I reach out to you afterwards I want to make sure that I
understand your question correctly okay let's read the other thank you yeah um how are in
group operations on already grouped tables uh so how they the the group operation on
are handled do we get to regional groups after the operation
oh that is great question I actually have not tried to see what happens if you use by with
in a group let's see what happens if we try it um I think it's it's a it's a it's a it's a
try it um I think the assumption is you're using one or the other you're either using
group by or you're using um by by but let's see so we have transactions this one is grouped
transactions group let's save it in two and live coding is always a little dangerous so
please bear with me it doesn't work um so the question is like can you do I still use the
reader pipe uh so something like
summarize
is
would be another thing to summarize by
so just like revenue by equals like so
okay okay I think it looks like it it retains the original group um but it's a great question
uh I'll dig in a bit deeper but um I I think another point with by is that it is like one of
those examples of something that make you be a little bit more explicit um in that like you know
if you want to keep company in year you have to write company in year and so uh yeah I think it's
like learning about your your workflows and things like that but um yeah that's a good
question I hadn't thought about that okay uh I don't see other question but I am I have one
about the dot by option okay actually uh two questions about that so you can use that
um what so as I group by okay so and you use it inside the mutate function what I
want to so you said that I cannot create colons but so with mutate I create colons
when I make modification it's like but I'm not able to create new columns
or just the name of the column the yeah I believe that's referring to that um like
this does create a new column but like you I believe like here these have to already exist
okay okay so those ones that you use for grouping my question is can I do more than one
like vector uh summarizing vector yes and um but the idea is again like you do it uh
like one operation for each by so you would pipe it and create a new operation
and then specify the groups for that operation there
so you kind of like layer on um all the things that you want to do and one more so the thing
it belongs to a particular type of functions or just some have required it and other not
uh the dot yeah yeah so it depends on the verb the dplyr verb that you're using um if
if you're using for example spice max it seems like it requires one without a dot
and so what you would do if you use the incorrect one it will give you an error
but here in the information it's going to tell you why you got an error and what to do instead
so in this case it says did you mean to use by without a period and so you can rerun it like so
and you'll see that that works so that's great so I just realized that you are using just just
realize that you are using this uh by grouping this by for grouping inside different functions
different functions so right yeah so just realize that that I was thinking about mutate and now yes
of course you you need to use the dot for example with slides so what is this uh has been implemented
for all functions or a certain type of functions that yes okay right yes and yeah yeah so uh
for certain verbs so you can see them here um again the the whether or not you use the dot
depends on the function but uh these are the ones that are supported by by
thank you yeah of course thank you great questions and if I can't answer anything I will find out
and I will update the documentation um and hopefully you can serve as a good resource too
so thank you awesome so another dpyr uh addition or changes is pick reframe and arrange
and so I'm going to refresh my R session to make sure
I don't have any output
okay awesome so again oh why is this still here
I'm using my personal laptop so please bear with it it's a little old
oh okay well that's okay
okay so we're going to load dplyr
I think I may have overloaded my computer there we go
okay sorry uh load dplyr so while that is loading
so across is an operator that you could do for um for applying functions across columns
and so it's very commonly used for that but it turns out that you can actually use it for column
selection uh instead and so um the developers and notice that this was something that was happening
right um so it has all these things and you want uh the the number of columns that start with x the
number of columns that start with y and you put it within summarize if you notice you're using
across with unsummarize and it does work it gives you you know the two columns of x one column have
and it does work it gives you you know the two columns of x one column have y
uh but the issue is that that's actually not what across was um originally implemented for it was
for for functions and so uh but that's okay not all hope is lost dplyr 1.1.0 has a new function
specifically for this and it's called pick so if you run that it will give you
exactly what you expected up above so it's just an alternative um well it's a better option
because it is a function that's meant to do what you expect it to do so if you have been using
across in functions like um mutate or summarize uh use pick instead and they mentioned that it
still works across still works in these functions for now but it's going to be deprecated
okay reframe um is something that has been implemented because of what the developers
had been noticing in terms of how people use these different functions and so in dplyr 1.0.0
summarize could return uh per group length of any length and that was different from before before
it had to be a length one if you got a zero or anything more than one throw an error so for
example here you have a table maybe df you have um i'm sorry a vector called tables df a table
and then um say you wanted to intersect uh this df table and then by g so it's referring to g
as the group and using the by operator which we just covered and then returning the intersection
and if you run this you will notice that g the group has multiple results per group
and again this is something that that started in dplyr 1.0.0 but it raised a lot of concerns
first of all it increased the chances for bugs and the idea behind the summary is one row per
group not multiple and so it's like oh why can summarize do this now and for folks who use dbplyr
it made translation very difficult and so this feature has now been walked back so that means
if you summarize and get zero or more than one row per group you will get a warning but again
there is an alternative so if this is something that you intend that you want to do there is the
function called reframe and so um again it's just do something for each group it as opposed to using
summarize like we did above we use reframe which is a function that's
like that's meant for this purpose so again um something to note is reframe will always give
an ungrouped data frame and so even if the input was grouped so we'll ungroup them and
again another habit to kind of pick up and carry forward as you know as these functions get
really it's like is this helpful to start learning like the new things that are coming out
and then finally I wanted to mention arrange so this one isn't a replacement
arrange has existed before but a difference is that it's now using what's called the C locale
instead of the system locale for sorting vectors and essentially what that means it just makes
dbplyr 1.1.0 like a lot faster than before so here is a 500,000 random strings that I'm created
creating in df you can look at it here and so in the previous locale uh from before
let's see how long it takes to sort this
okay that took nine seconds so quite a bit of time and let's see with the new locale from the
newest version of dplyr that took 1.27 so you can see there's significant difference in terms of
the speed of sorting if you want to use the old locale there is this option with with R
however it's going to be removed at some point just be aware or if you want to be explicit with
another locale you can mention it as an argument here so it's not that you have to use the C locale
at all again very much much faster but there is something to be aware it slightly changes how
vectors are sorted to be honest I'm not 100% sure the details behind that but
if it is something that could impact you just be aware that it that that's the case
okay so that was
uh pick reframe and arrange all right let's talk about case one case match and consecutive id
also changes in dplyr told you there's a lot um let's load our package so if you
have ever used case one you're in good company if you feel like it's a very popular function
for generalized SL statements yeah and so I have a few changes to case one so
I don't know how long you haven't been using R but I remember a time when I could run this and
not get an error and then at some point things changed and all of a sudden I started getting
this error na must be character not logical so from one day to the next had to know what kind
of na I needed for my case one statement oh and I'm sorry and just a quick overview of how case
one works you say case one um here is a vector of numbers it's saying when x is greater than or
or equal to 10 call it large when it's greater than or equal to zero it's small
when it's less than zero it's an na and so um yeah again in the good old times you didn't have
to say any uh character which would like this and so I think yeah um however now thanks to vectors
the the package that I mentioned before uh you no longer have to specify the type of na
very very exciting um so now when you do this it just works and no error thrown so that's one
really big change um if you're like me you can never remember the different na's uh the second
change is uh before if you wanted to set a default in case one you have to do this uh so you say
large small missing and then for everything else make it uh like true squiggle other why I don't
know I actually remember the day my co-worker taught me this and I was like why is it true
and he was like I don't know but that's you know the way that you set defaults in uh case one and
so in this case uh negative one which doesn't which is not greater than or equal to 10 not
greater than or equal to zero and not na would fall under other which is here and so um yeah so
this syntax is really odd and it's very different from anything I had seen before and kind of hard
to remember too but now with the new version of dplyr there's an explicit argument called default
so it makes it much easier to read much easier to remember what exactly you need so you do dot default
with um the thing that you want for everything else that doesn't fit your your logical statements
you run it and uh yeah and so it's just uh another um you know way that that dplyr has improved the
way that we work with data it's true it's not deprecated yet but it will be in the future so
also another thing to kind of just start picking up and and using in your workflow
okay so if you've ever used case one there are times that it can be a bit repetitive so here we
have a vector of countries we have usa and canada uk china mexico russia and we want whenever um
whenever the value is in usa canada mexico we want it to be north america whenever it's wales or uk
we want to replace it with europe and whenever it's china we want to replace it with asia
i probably need to save that
so very handy like a much better alternative than using a bunch of nested if health statements but
it is uh a little still a little repetitive so with the new version of dplyr there's a special
there's a special case that lets you do this without having to rewrite stuff all the time
so now you give it you know what it is that you want to replace and instead of having to
note in every single time you could just say like this is what i want to replace it by
so again it's really just a nice special case alternative for you know streamlining your code
and so before you may have noticed for na's we have to say is na for the value now you can just
list na like this and say what you want to replace it by
and then it also works with default which we just covered instead of true
and just a thing to note if fowls has the same updates as case one uh so
all right and last thing in uh this document is consecutive id and so
i highly recommend reading davis von's um blog post the the example that he gave is quite fun
but i just created another short little one for today so this is friends dialogue and so
here we have the text the thing that was said and then here we have who who spoke and a funny fact
monica was the first person to speak in france and if you notice in the dialogue there's some times
where you know it switches from monica to joey to chandler but then phoebe speaks two times and
but the transcript is kind of broken up in two different rows and so there might be a case where
you want uh what she said to be together in one line and so if you um try to do that in r
and so if you um try to do that in r you can try to use uh summarized right to put the groups
together and use the string r function called string flatten to kind of collapse the data
into consecutive uh dialogue but if we do that we see um we we went too far originally we had
10 lines of dialogue now we only have four lines and that's because for everything in monica it
grouped it together and put it in one line for everything for joey everything for chandler and
everything for phoebe and so that means um that the transcript is now out of order and not exactly
what we want and so the dplyr new version has something that can help with this and it's called
consecutive id so you create a new id that provides you the consecutive id and you can see
here now monica spoke first so she's one uh joey's two chandler's three phoebe spoke twice in a row
and since it's the same person it will assign the same id uh for any consecutive series of
of the group and similarly monica five and then chandler six six six
and so now that we have this id we can use that in our summarized statement
to group the dialogue correctly and now we have
the correct order of consecutive dialogue for each of the characters
okay that was case one case match and consecutive ids
there is a question can you use regex in case match
i i believe so
you
anything i believe anything in case when you could do in case match but i will double check
thank you okay now we're going to talk about a new function
i would like to clear my outcome i'm sorry if it takes a little while
um so string r is a package that uh makes it really easy to work with string it has a ton of
functions that you know help you find repeated values pull out the first character pull out the
last three characters etc and so in um three years it's just got its first release that's
three years ago and so it has accumulated a lot of functions that are now officially part of
string r so let's load it
uh the first one and probably um the the biggest like change is this uh function called string view
and so it lets you see a character with special strings and so you might have something like this
with a lot of dash ends and when you print it out it looks exactly like that but that's not
very informative because that's not actually what it looks like and in base r there's a function
called bright lines that lets you take a good look at it and so here we can see uh the dash n is news
and the new line and so they're actually on three separate lines a the the colon or not the colon
sorry the dash and then the quotation mark and the c and so in the new version of string r there
is string view so that is something new and there you can see very clearly what exactly that string
looks like so very very handy um especially if you're working with stuff like that looks like
that um and so another thing is that highlights special characters so in this case this is a
special kind of space so when you print it it looks normal though it looks like a regular space
that you've seen anywhere but if you try to do an equality of that and one with a regular space
you'll see that it's not actually um the same but with string view it provides really nice
highlighting um and and functionality to really clearly point out um those kind of special
characters similarly with tabs if you've ever run into something that had a tab that you couldn't see
now string view lets you see lets you you know find that very easily
and it also makes matches really stand out um you know if you're ever double checking your
work and making sure that you caught everything that you expected to catch
so here we have a b c d e f f g h i and we want to single out every time we see a e i o u
with string view it has like again that nice color highlighting puts it in the
greater than and lesser than sign so it's really easy to see oh here's the a here's the e here's
the i this is regex for um the last character in a string so again just another example of how
string view shows you exactly what you're looking for and then finally um
this is regex for anything that that is like a duplicate
and here we go so pointing out the pp the ll the rr etc
that is string view um like i mentioned uh string r the new version has just a ton of
different functions that may be helpful for you there's string equal which tells you if
two strings are the same um you can ignore case if you want this one is another string equal so
these are a with an accent but they're just encoded in two different ways but they are equivalent
and so
now this is what it looks like if you do you know a1 equals to a2 it's going to say false
but since it's the same character for just a different encoding
string equal will let you know that they're actually true
another one is string rank so it'll give you the rank of the values so in this case
so in this case you assign one to a two to b and then four to c because there's two b's
string unique as you can imagine it returns any unique values and you can also ignore case in this
and another function um before if you wanted to split a single string and return a character
vector you needed to do string split and then unlist because it would always return a list
but now with the new version of string r there's a function called string split one
and it will do all of that in one go
like that so it's split in by the by the dash um and gives you a character vector
and finally um like a sign yeah is a string split i and so what this says is uh it will
extract a specific piece of a string that you that you tell it to so we have this string we say
split it by the dash and give me the second um output there's the second value and then
and then as you can imagine this is going to give you b it's going to give you e and then
it's going to give you g because that's the second of this string after it's been split
if you give it something that doesn't exist it'll output in na because abc only has four after it's
or three after it's been split so it's going to return an na and you can also do for the last
value by using a negative number in the string split i oh yes and i this is a string like which
is like string detect for anybody that uses sql and wants to use like a similar syntax
just need to add a heading to it and that's a string r any questions
uh i don't see questions in the chat okay but um so i really like this uh string string uh
things that release um elements already unlisted so that's very useful because you know you do
grouping and things and then you want to use the the vector that you have yeah um
extrapolated for uh you know extracting some uh strings that correspond to the
vector that you have just created and everything and then you need to unlist and then
uh yeah so that is very useful yeah for sure um i think like these functions
are going to be very helpful like i work a lot with text data and like you know it comes in
all different formats all sorts of like hidden stuff um it'll be very helpful to see you know
where they are uh before you know running something and having it be incorrect
oh cool all right thanks well so uh now we're going to move on to tidy r
which also has several new changes tidy r 1.3.0 it has a few new separate functions
and oh that's why it looks like that i'm going to move to my visual editor all right
okay so i've loaded tidy r so um there are there were several ways of separating um with tidy r
that had like a lot of different ways of or you know the it wasn't very standardized so for
example if you wanted to separate with a delimiter like comma or colon or whatnot um for columns
that you would use separate and then you would say the delimiter in step or you for rows you
would use separate rows for separate by position you would use this like similar to that but then
there was no equivalent for make rows and for regular expressions there was extract
but only for columns and so uh in the 1.3.0 release of tidy r now there's a new separate
family of functions that supersede all of these um and so uh that means there are better
alternatives for you out there what those are and how they look like is separate um wider
and and then by what you want to separate by and separate longer by what you want to separate by
so now if you want to separate with delimiter you would use it for a column you would use
separate wider delim for row separate longer delim um as you can imagine for position for
columns separate wider precision with regular expression separate wider regex and then for
rows and positions or separate longer precision um so they are longer but I think um you know
what doing this presentation it just made so much more sense when I was like oh I want to do it by
this now um it was a lot easier to just switch out the limb to position to regex as opposed to
trying to remember you know is it uh an argument or is it a you know a whole different uh function
so that is what's new in tidy r um the new separate family of functions
and so I created a full list data from the tidy hideout package from our opensci and it provides
a bunch of real-time data um on Canadian uh station water stations and so once we load it
I'm going to pull some data and I'm going to show you what the date looks like the date column
just give second okay so now we have a column called date um but as you can see it's kind of
all uh put together the the um year month day the hour minute second and there are different
ways of doing this but for the purpose of this demonstration we're going to use tidy r
so say that we want to separate the date and the time um into their own separate rows
we can use separate wider position um if if we choose to so uh because the date is like
you know the same length throughout and the hour minute second is the same date throughout
let's just see how to do it with a separate wider position so with the function we're going to say
we're going to select that column and then we're going to say a year month date create a column
called year month date that's 10 characters long um another column that's called space that's one
and our uh minute second that's eight characters long
so doing that gives us uh what we expect now um the date is it's in its own column
space is in its own column and then our minute second in its own column but you may be wondering
like we don't really need this column like you know can we do it without um putting that out
there and the answer is yes but uh how do you do it so say you were to run something like this
where you just try to ignore it and just don't mention the space at all um you just try to pull
out 10 characters for the day the year month day and eight characters for the hour minute second
um
let me go back to my source and see if something has happened
okay um well yes so if you try to do something that is um too few or too many of whatever it is
that you need to do it will give you an error but not just that it will tell you what exactly
happened so in this case um this this is expecting sorry the number of characters in all of this
it's 19 but we only gave it 18 right we only gave it 10 and 8 so it was expecting 18 but it got 19
so in this case it is what is called um you can start using these debugging features that are now
part of tidy r 1.3.0 to kind of figure out like what exactly happened and so it will even tell
you use this to diagnose a problem use this to silence a problem and so let's uh try and debug
we're going to use too many equals debug and so rerunning that added here right
it will provide these really informative columns that will tell you what exactly happened
so here is date uh date is 19 characters long um is it okay no and it tells you which rows failed
um and all of this is pretty uniform but you can imagine if they're not uniform it would be very
helpful to kind of pinpoint like oh this one failed because maybe there's an extra space
um so now we know the problem happened with every single row in this uh in this instance
and uh we need to fix it and because we gave it 18 it's actually 19 um but the tidy r does have a
way of um of emitting output that you don't want or components that you don't want so what you do
is just don't assign it to anything so in this case we do um year month day plus 10 and then
one which signifies the space that we don't want and then hour minute second equals eight and doing
that we have the right um number of characters which is 19 and then when we do it we get only
the two columns that we were actually interested in so let's go ahead and run this and let's see
what happens and as another example if you wanted to do it with the limb instead of position
or wanted to continue this with the limb instead of position um here the year month they are
separated by dashes here they're separated by hour minute seconds are separated by column
columns and so you can um use separate wider the limb and specify you know the
different the limbs like so um as you can see it's very uniform um very easy to remember
and then you get exactly um what you would expect if you separate it out by dashes and by column
and then finally to give an example of separate wider regex
so we're going to load the tidy census package
which is an amazing package that makes it very easy to pull data from the census
and so if you look at
okay uh so we can see here oh i'm sorry first let's look at
so we can see here oh i'm sorry first let's look at
so we have um a data frame and under name it has uh like the block the block group the census
uh tract you know everything like mushed together with um with uh
commas as well you can imagine they're also very easy to remember and you can see here
commas as well you can imagine there are also various different ways of splitting this out but
say you know we're only interested in the block numbers uh the block group numbers and census
tract numbers everything else like we really don't need the block you can use regex to specify
you know only give me the numbers and then put that within separate wider regex uh to
to get the the output that we want so in this case we're saying you know look at the name
within um within name uh pull out the number associated with the block it'll be whatever is
black and then the space and then whatever is between that and the comma and so then
similarly with block group and with census tract and then it also has regex for county and state
uh to get stuff like to not capture the comma so anyway lots of regex statements uh within
separate wider regex to get you exactly what you need and just like simplifies the workflow like
rather than having to have multiple steps for um data manipulation just being able to do it all at
once and so here we have the output where for block we just have a number for block if we just
have the number um and no commas no no characters or anything like that so that's tidy are
any questions
oh i guess that's not tidy so new separate functions are still a bit more untidy are
okay
so in tidy are there is uh some improvements to unnest wider and on this longer
i'm just gonna load it again
so uh in the spirit of a lot of what we've mentioned so far um if you have something so
um here's a nested list so in the first id it contains a and b and the second id
it contains def and uh it will be more explicit with errors if there is one so you're trying to
unnest wider here and it's going to say hey you can't unnest elements with missing names
can you please use a name step to create some names so really nice really informative
and so you can fix it by doing so
and by specifying name step but then you can see that it's all been unnested here i don't know why
it's all squished though apologies uh on the website it should show up a bit better
and there is a function called uh
unnest i'm sorry there's an argument called keep empty in a nest that lets you keep values
and essentially um now unnest longer has also has a keep empty so before it used to like here
here we have a nested data frame with one two three as id and then within one that was null
so when you uh oops sorry oh yes uh this was the one is null two is a blank um an empty integer
and then three has one through three when you did unnest longer it would um you know get rid of
ids one and two because it was uh empty but now there's a keep empty argument and so when you do
it it will keep them but also mention that they're empty so another improvement from tidyr
any questions about those
changes okay yeah i know so many so many changes yes it's amazing um i'm gonna see in my visual
thank you cool so let's talk about ggplot um so new version of ggplot 3.4.0
and one of the changes is there's a new aesthetic called line width and essentially whenever um it
will take over sizing for the width of lines previously that was done with the aesthetic
called size um but as you will see like there was some some questions about that so loading that
i tried to like um there's a way that you can use different versions of packages within the
same document but it just takes a little while to to load so i'm just going to show you like
the image on the website um if that's all right
okay so essentially before it when you wanted to change the width of lines you would specify
size and so scale size and then you'd give it a range like so
and the issue is like for line widths it's it's length right um versus
it was also the same aesthetic that you could use for changing the size of points and that one is
area and so like there's just like a little bit of discrepancy as to like what exactly size did
and so um now it's been replaced for these sorts of um aesthetics by line width and so now you can
see instead of size you're going to use scale line width uh they look very similar but i feel
like putting them side by side like this you can kind of see that there's a little bit of a
difference so it will change your plots if you've used size for line width before um i think the
gradient you know for final with line width and um just a note if you try to use size with
lines now you're just going to get a deprecation warning and it's going to be very explicit just
please use line width and so something like point range if you've used it before
is a mix of lines and circles um and so it's going to be uh like if it is size is meant to
be used for that aesthetic or for that um that aesthetic like then it's not going to give you an
error it's only going to give you one if it doesn't make sense and a really quick note is
that for ss plots the default is now a little bit thinner so it looks quite nice um and that's just
another thing like if you rerun old things um with a new version of ggplot and it looks different
and i have another ggplot error messages
so generally again another example there's better error messages in ggplot now with the newer
another example there's better error messages in ggplot now with the newer version and so say here
you're going to run this and i do this many many times you run this it's going to throw an error
and the reason is because i used a pipe instead of a plus sign so if you've ever been like me
and that and that it's going to be really informative as to what exactly um what went
wrong it also tells you uh when it went wrong so here it says it must be done by aes so i know
it's an issue here and um and what to do about it so use the plus sign instead of a pipe
and uh here's just like another example that where it just shows you kind of like explicitly
what it happened so if you take a look at this maybe you can anticipate what the error can be
we're running it here we go the stack count can only have an x or y and it'll let you know
it happened in the first layer so i know you know i'm looking at here to to fix the problem
so better error messages in ggplot any questions about ggplot
i didn't see any questions in there okay thank you cool okay let's talk about purr
the purr is a package for functional programming which is working with functions and r um it is
uh like incredibly helpful especially if you're doing things you know across uh was across tables
working with lists um and so yeah very very handy function and you can probably guess it also has a
new update 1.1.0 um where oh it should be 1.0.0 i believe sorry um where there's a lot of like
big new changes so purr is seven years old and so this is the first major release as in it's 1.0.0
which is very very exciting um because it's a major release it's kind of like the chance that
the tidyverse team had to go through you know really think about the fundamentals of what purr
is as a package uh implement the functions that they believe should be part of purr and you know
and then release it so that's why you uh we'll see like there have been a lot of changes um that
come with a major release
so first up is uh in mapping so there is hold on i'm going to restart my
session i know it takes a while but i think it's worth it
oh
great
loading all right so first thing is progress bars uh this is very exciting so if you ever run
a long um running job in purr and you're like is this uh even close to being over now you do not
have to wonder by adding progress equals true uh it will let you know what what exactly um how far
it has been so made myself a bit to open the console so here it's going to map through this
function so neat
it gives you an eta and everything and say you know you're doing multiple things or you just
want to make sure that you name things and understand what exactly is going on you could
give it an identifier like so and so here you can see what the identifier is just put waiting
so that's a purpose for us
one more time just better errors that will let you know what um exactly caused the problem
so here we have a list we have a 10 5 and then a character of a x and so then we're going to
map over all of these elements saying please divide by 2 so as you can imagine it's going to
hit an error and if you know this was more complex you might be wondering what exactly
happened and it will tell you where so in index 3 that's where um the error happened and what
exactly happened the non-numeric argument you know i try to divide a character by two
and so a final uh addition on this document for per there's a new map vec uh function so
what the map family does is it applies a function to every element of a list
and um then you also specify like kind of what you want back so map always returns a list you
know map int would return an integer map double that character etc so in this case uh
leading back to the earlier one we're going to divide each of these elements by two you get
in a list 0.5 1 and 1.5 and so now there's a general map back so here you have to kind of know
like what exactly you wanted the output to be and um you know and then like say you you mapped
when you wanted to map character then you have to go back and fix it so map back is a more
generalized and you can work with other sorts of things like dates for example so here we're going
to apply this function to 1 2 1 2 and 3 and we're going to use map back to get back a date so
as opposed to say map which would return us a list here map pack gives us back what we gave
it which was a date um but a thing to note if you try to combine different things again like
character number um it's just going to throw an error because you can't combine the two
so that's per um just have a quick question about yeah you go back um
where you were um well not very practical with this function but so i need to put the slash
is that a requirement for the function to
oh i'm sorry could you repeat that so you say it's this um
um so here that it's 1 2 3 and then map back yes yeah i need to just do this back slash
oh yes um so the backslash and this um so that is the uh i believe since r 4.2
um a way that you can write functions in r and it's just a shorthand really for like that um
so instead of having to write out function you could do a slash um and then here is like you
know what you put within your function and then next to it is the function itself and uh in the
in the per blog post um i do recommend reading it i mean i recommend reading all of them but
that one in particular kind of goes through like um a bit more on the base r and how to use it now
with um with per uh i think like you know for the most part with dplyr with tidy r we've seen
we didn't really need to think too much about how to create these what they're called anonymous
functions um but with per it happens a lot and so we're going to see like you know that you have
the option to do it um the previous way but i i think the hope is like um to get a bit comfortable
with creating these functions in base r um to be able to use them within per uh as opposed to
you know kind of um the previous way of doing it before there was um this functionality in base r
yeah thank you yeah and and um again not to like uh yeah um but please like uh take a look at the
blog post i wrote with my brother i think like it we tried really hard to kind of break down
the different steps of creating this in base r
because it is very new and and it looks very different
yeah because it reminds me of python lambda function yes so that's exactly what it is
yep um yep so now base r just has like that functionality as well
yep exactly
cool um so i know
we just have a few documents left and then we can open up to more general questions um
there are two functions from per called keep and discard they keep and discard elements by value
so here you know we want to create um 10 10s and then we uh say like for for each one
uh say like for for each one
like create a sample of um five and then we just want to keep the ones that uh have a
average greater than six and here here that anonymous function is showing up again
so you could do it either way this or that and um
so here we have two results of of um vectors that where the mean is greater than six which
is all we wanted to keep um from this uh from the simulation i guess and similarly with discard
you know we want to remove all the results that we have with a mean greater than six
so um but if you notice that's by value we have to say like the value is greater than six or whatnot
so now there's a new one that lets you do it by position as opposed to by value so say we have
this list and we want to keep a b and c um we use this new function keep at in order to keep it by
by the name as opposed to having to specify what exactly the value is
and similarly one for discard
and um
sorry and then one last thing is you can also provide it a vector or sorry a logical vector
and keep at and discard at instead of having to give it the names of the thing that you want to
cool okay
so two new things are flattening and simplification
okay um
okay so two new things are flattening and simplification and so list flatten
this is incredibly helpful it's just a way to flatten lists hierarchy by heart hierarchy
so in this case we have one list in the second element like it has another list the third one
has another list and then it kind of branches out from there so you can see it's a deeply
hierarchical list here so say we want to remove one of the layers we could use list flatten once
and that removes one of the layers and so uh everything kind of shifts over one um and so
the number of lists actually changes because this is like list within a list and then another list
and so that's why it's list of two and now it's a list and then three other lists which is a list
of four um but especially if you work with lists it's very helpful to be able to kind of move
hierarchy depending on what you need if you would do it again you know uh it'll keep going until
there's no more uh there are no more lists and then it will just stay you know in one hierarchy
like so
like it won't make the list disappear
and finally there's a list simplify which um produces a simpler type of the thing that you give
it so here's a list
oh i didn't print x but the type of x is a list say we want to simplify it we just want these
elements in a character vector we could use list simplify run it again now we have a character
run it again now we have a character vector which is great
um there are a few rules it'll only succeed if every element has a length one so here we
have three and four within this list so it's not going to work um everything must be compatible
so we have a character with two numbers so that's not going to work and if um if you want it so that
like simplify is possible but if you can't simplify just don't throw an error you can add
strict equals false
and then you can also be specific as to what exactly you want the the output to be
oh and one more note um a deprecation so map dfr and map dfc have been
superseded i'm sorry i'm deprecation superseded and instead they suggest that you use list
rbind and list cbind so whereas before you may have used this in the past this is another one
of that map family of functions um they're suggesting that first you use map created
a list and then use list rbind to create what it is that you need
okay uh any questions thank you so there is one from dorota hi dorota can you
she said can you control which list is removed uh in the hierarchy
i
i'll try and open it up again yeah i believe it does it by a hierarchy the specific function
um i can double check like so it will just move things over um i think there are other functions
if you want to be more specific so does it remove sort of from the inner to the outer list
is that the idea um i guess i'm just i just want to clarify yeah yeah yeah no no no for sure okay
so let's walk through this example so here we have list one and so i think this is one list
and then here we have another list um that has
well i think you're muted sorry
oh i'm sorry i don't know where i muted myself apologies um i was going to say let's let's walk
through this example um so i think it does it like um from the outside in if i had trying to
conceptualize it like so first we have one which is its own list here and then we have the second
list which is a list made up of two and another list and then made up of five so that's represented
here and so when you use list flatten what that does is the first list this one stays the same
because it has nowhere to go like there's nothing to flatten um but this one now becomes a list of
three because the two has become flattened into its own list this one has um you know but it's
this one stays a list of two um but now it's not within here and then this one
yeah okay i see what happened yeah so if you see it here um i like i had to print this out a bunch
of times to be like exactly evidence so um and so then if you do it one more time now all of these
once they well this list this list and this list again cannot be flattened anymore um and
then this one with its two children become flattened oops i'm sorry here we go these two
with with uh this list with these two children flattens and now they're all in the same hierarchy
thank you appreciate yeah yeah of course it kind of reminds me of excel you know like that
you know where you're like back back back and you make the numbers smaller
cool and then finally just some breaking changes um uh so as you have seen map dfr and map at dfc
have been um superseded and then there are also some breaking changes that you should just be
aware of in purr it's if these are um uh functions that you have used in the past so
the tidyverse team did a lot of research and made sure that you know these are things that
you know everything has alternatives everything has been um you know communicated with with folks
that they knew were using these within their packages um but if this is something that's
coming in your data workflow again it's just something to um to keep in mind so that your
code doesn't break and so let me load her and so uh one thing is that now pluck which is a
function that lets you get an element within these kind of nested structures that we were
just talking about so it has a default setting and now when you have um something in your default
it will only return the default for null and absent elements so here we have a list where y
a is a character like an empty character and then uh here we have null um for y b
and so here you might expect if you pluck a from y and set the default as an a because it's an
empty character that you would get in an a but now purr will give you back your empty character
so that's again um something new to keep in mind versus if you pull this null um value out from b
it will be replaced by the default and if you do something that doesn't exist
like c it will also give you the default so that's one breaking change um it impacts map
because map uses uh pluck it wouldn't given an integer vector character vector will list
so just again another thing to be aware of as part of the vectors package it's going to
be more explicit and in the things that it wants and then give you like better errors
so before you might have been able to get away with using map character
with numbers but as you can see it's really not ideal like um you're getting these character
values out but they have a bunch of zeros and probably not what exactly you want
uh now it's going to um ask like now it's going to give you a warning
and b be like please be explicit and what does explicit mean it means like saying like yeah
i do want a character um for map character like so
so that's also like kind of assuming that's generally what you were expecting instead of this
another thing just to note is um there are different ways that r deals with nulls
and now um previously like it would depend how you wrote what you wanted to do which result you
would get if that makes sense um so here you know we want to set a to null so we can assign it with
this dollar sign and when we look at it now it is no longer in part of this list
and then uh but we could also do it this way with the brackets and say x2 a make that null
and then when you look at that it is different a still exists but it's a null so um like you
could imagine a world where you expect them to do the same thing but they actually do different
things just because of how base r works with brackets and dollar signs and things like that
um now in per there's a a consistent way when you use a list modify to
change something into a null it's going to be the same no matter how you do it
and if you want to remove it like that first example that we showed
use this element uh this function called zap
nope thanks
and finally some deprecations and so uh if you've ever used cross
all of that has been deprecated in favor of tidy r's expand grid so an example of why
is when i found in the github discussions so here we have some letters uh what cross does
is it provides all of the combinations of you know the things that you give it and so uh check
so running across the f on x up above
i'm just gonna wait here a little bit
this is where the the progress bar comes in handy so that's like 39 seconds um and then
using expand grid to do the same thing that took uh 0 2 3 so that is why cross has been deprecated
um and you um can check out the documentation for examples of how to like uh translate your
code if you'd like to do so and then at the bottom here and again more um in more detail in
the in the tidy blog tidyverse blogs blog posts are just various things that have been superseded
and deprecated um for various reasons like splice and lift and prepend you know when and this was
just part of the effort of finding you know what is the core of per um what they were hoping to do
with a with a major release and that is what i have thanks